---
title: Instructions for Contributing to the T4DS Site Structure
layout: post
post-image: "https://comptag.github.io/t4ds-teaching/assets/images/beehive.jpg"
description: How to use the T4DS Workshop materials, or adapt them to your own workshop setting.
tags:
- schedule
---

## Getting Started

This tutorial assumes basic familiarity with `git`, but
we will try to insert the required git commands when they're first
introduced in dropdown commands. If you need help with git,
feel free to ask us or to consult the
[software carpentries tutorial](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/).

Begin by creating a new repository on github for your project, and cloning the repository
located at this url:

`https://github.com/compTAG/t4ds`

The cleanest way to do this is by mirroring our repository. Do this with a bare clone:

```
git clone --bare https://github.com/compTAG/t4ds
cd t4ds.git
git push --mirror https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME/NAME-OF-YOUR-REPO.git
```

Where you push to a newly created repo of your own. We would suggest also just calling this repo
`t4ds`, although any name should be fine.

Then you can delete the temporary repo you first cloned:

```
cd ..
rm -rf t4ds.git
```

And clone your newly mirrored github repo (under your user, or organization):

```
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME/NAME-OF-YOUR-REPO.git
cd NAME-OF-YOUR-REPO
```

It should start building automatically in your repo. You can see this by inspecting the
`actions` tab in the `gh-pages` branch. It should be located at the following address:

`https://YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME.github.io/NAME-OF-YOUR-REPO/`

The site is built using Jekyll, hosted by github pages. When making changes to a github pages
site, we will push to the `gh-pages` branch.
Make sure you're working on this branch by running:
````git checkout gh-pages```

If you'd like to build the
site locally, it should work by installing Jekyll, and running
`bundle exec jekyll serve`. Often Jekyll can be tricky to get installed and
working properly, so it is also fine to build live. If you would like to try your luck
with jekyll locally, [here are instructions to get it running](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).


## Working in the T4DS Repository

For stylistic changes throughout the site, one can customize features either in
`_config.yml` for primary site themes, headings and features, or in the html files
located in `_layouts`. Let's try this together.

### Stylizing the Introductory Page Frontmatter

All of the material for the introductory page standing alone is located in
`_config.yml`. Go ahead and try changing the title, and the description to anything you would like.
If you need ideas, maybe change the title to something like
`My Awesome TDA Workshop`, and change the description to
`Triangles, filtrations, and diagrams, oh my!`.

You can try testing your changes by pushing to the `gh-pages` branch. They should be updated in a minute or two.

Likely, you will want to change the heroimage to something specific to your workshop. This can be done by either:
1. Linking to an image somewhere on the internet (for example, we used open source NPS images.)
2. Linking to an image on the internet within the assets of this website
3. Linking to an image using relative path within the directory.

Try changing the heroimage to an (open source) image on the internet of your choice. For example, you could try
this image from the NPS of a utah rock with interesting topology:

`https://www.nps.gov/npgallery/GetAsset/1FE16D77-155D-451F-67BEAA70882EBD52/proxy/hires?`

### Changes to Site Structure

If you would like to make changes affecting the broader site structure,
edits need to be made to html files in the `_includes` folder. A common thing one might
need to do is change the names of navbar tabs. To demonstrate this, let's change the name of the
`WORKSHOP MATERIALS` tab to `MY NEW TUTORIALS`. Edit the corresponding text in `navbar.html`,
and push your changes.

It is sometimes useful to link to specific pages in the navbar. In particular,
our tutorial materials are entirely generated by `.md` files in the `_posts`
directory, which we can link using preassigned variables from `_config.yml`.

For example, let's create a new tab linking to the first T4DS tutorial.
Insert the following `<a>` element in the corresponding
`<div>` element in `navbar.html`:

```
<a class="navbar-item" href="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/blog/intro-to-topology">FIRST TUTORIAL</a>
```

After committing and pushing, you should see your site update with a new tab, linking to the first tutorial.
While doing so, you might notice a few things:

1. The base site url is populated by variables set in the `_config.yml` file, which gives build instructions.
2. It is possible to use logic based on variables set in `_config.yml` (We can even use loops, see line 42 of `footer.html`).
3. Our workshop materials are populated by `.md` files in the `/blog/` subdirectory, named by the title of the `.md` file.

In general, everything in this template is readily customizable, and accessible via the suspected `.html` file in `_includes`.
Variables are changed, removed, or created in the `_config.yml` file. Beware when making edits to this file, they can
affect the entire site!

If you would like more practice making these kinds of edits, we suggest customizing the site footer.
Perhaps try changing the links in the site footer from MSU associated websites to your own.

---
