---
title: Intro
layout: post
post-image: "https://npgallery.nps.gov/GetAsset/ed77abff-b31e-4090-97fb-365fc6d1de01/popupimage"
description: Introduction to the trainer training.
tags:
- schedule
---

## Getting Started

Let's start by getting to know each other.  Please introduce yourself with the
following:

* Name
* School
* Student? Faculty?
* Research interests
* Why you are here

Next, we'll do an improv game! Let's count to 10.

## First Breakout

We will have open discussions about how to run workshops during our time
together, so let's first set some objectives for today and some ground rules.
Please discuss the following in your groups:

1. What is the objective of today's training overall? Your personal objectives?
2. What are some ground rules for how we should interact during our time
   together? (Do we want to usre "raise hand" feature, or just unmute, etc.)

## Facilitation

T4DS is a workshop grounded in [experiential learning](https://www.kent.edu/community/what-experiential-learning-and-why-it-important)
and highly influenced by the [Data Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/).
Some strategies we emplyed while designing T4DS:

* Problem-first: The main goal was to have the hands-on experience with the
  glacier data. Steps along the way, as articulated in the objectives of each
  session, helped support that goal.
* Multi-level: Naturally, different learners will work through the materials at
  different paces.  We addressed this in three ways: (1) provided "more info"
  boxes that could be read if students wanted more; (2) were prepared with
  additional prompts for students who completed the tasks early; (3) encouraged
  students to work together and to help those around them.
* "Yes and" is a motto for improv, but it is also important for facilitation. If
  working with a co-organizer, build off of each others ideas to build a better
  workshop. When facilitating live, don't negate each other, work together to
  form a common voice. 

## T4DS

You have all seen the T4DS materials by now.  In your breakout rooms, you will
be assigned a session to discuss the following questions:

1. What was the main objective of this session?
2. Identify one facilitation strategy that was used in this session. 
3. What is one way that you could enhance or add-on to this session?

## Credits

* The improv exercise game was found on [a list of zoom improv games](https://teambuilding.com/blog/zoom-improv-games).
